README.md, before:

# Istio-Certified-Associate

## Prepare a Lab
- [Istio Lab](labs/README.md)

## Understanding Service Mesh and Istio
- [istio.io: Isitio Architecture](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/)
- [istio.io: Concepts Documents](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/)

## Exam Objectives

These are the exam objectives you review and understand in order to pass the test.

* [github.com: CNCF Exam Curriculum repository ](https://github.com/cncf/curriculum)
* [linuxfoundation.org: ICA Home Page](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/istio-certified-associate-ica/)
* [Resources allowed during the examp](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/tc-docs/certification/certification-resources-allowed#istio-certified-associate-ica)

<details><summary>Istio Installation, Upgrade & Configuration 7%</summary>
<p>

- [Using the Istio CLI to install a basic cluster](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/install/istioctl/)
  - [youtube.com: Mesh Week (Session 1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_8Gg_jsAbU)
  - [istio.io: Installation Configuration Profiles](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/config-profiles/)
  - [istio.io: Introducing istiod: simplifying the control plane](https://istio.io/v1.16/blog/2020/istiod/)
- [Customizing the Istio installation with the IstioOperator API](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/)
- [Using overlays to manage Istio component settings](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/customize-installation/#identify-an-istio-component)

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Traffic Management 40%</summary>
<p>

- [Controlling network traffic flows within a service mesh](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/request-routing/)
  - [youtube.com: Mesh Week (Session 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q-l1z3ejc8Q)
  - [solo.io: Istio Networking in Depth](https://www.solo.io/blog/istios-networking-in-depth/)
  - [istio.io: Traffic Shifting](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/traffic-shifting/)
- [Configuring sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/)
- [Using the Gateway resource to configure ingress and egress traffic](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/gateway/)
  - [istio.io: Egress Gateway](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway/)
  - [istio.io: Virtualservice](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/)
- [Understanding how to use ServiceEntry resources for adding entries to internal service registry](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/service-entry/)
  - [solo.io: Istio multi-cluster traffic](https://www.solo.io/blog/istio-multi-cluster-traffic-debugging/)
- [Define traffic policies using DestinationRule](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/destination-rule/)
- [Configure traffic mirroring capabilities](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/mirroring/)
  - [envoyproxy.io: HTTP route components](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#config-route-v3-routeaction-requestmirrorpolicy)

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Resilience and Fault Injection 20%</summary>
<p>

- [Configuring circuit breakers (with or without outlier detection)](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/circuit-breaking/)
- [Using resilience features](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#network-resilience-and-testing)
- [Creating fault injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/fault-injection/)
  - [istio.io: Fault injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#fault-injection)
  - [istio.io: Commands](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/commands/pilot-agent/)

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Securing Workloads 20%</summary>
<p>

- [Understand Istio security features](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/security/)
  - [youtube.com: Mesh Week (Session 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uO-X1U1l23I)
- [Set up Istio authorization for HTTP/TCP traffic in the mesh](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/)
  - [istio.io: HTTP Traffic (task for authorization policy)](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-http/)
- [Configure mutual TLS at mesh, namespace, and workload levels](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/tls-configuration/)
  - [istio.io: Mutual TLS Migration (task)](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authentication/mtls-migration/)

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Advanced Scenarios 13%</summary>
<p>

- [Understand how to onboard non-Kubernetes workloads to the mesh]()
- [Troubleshoot configuration issues]()

</p>
</details>

## Other resources
- [academy.solo.io: ServiceMesh and CNI  free courses](https://academy.solo.io/learn)
- [academy.tetrate.io: ServiceMesh free cources](https://academy.tetrate.io/collections)
- [github.com: Mesh Week Videos](https://github.com/solo-io/mesh-week)
- [github.com: Blog posts about ICA](https://github.com/yuyatinnefeld/istio?tab=readme-ov-file)

## Books
- [Istio in Action](https://www.manning.com/books/istio-in-action)
- [Istio Up and Running](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/istio-up-and/9781492043775/)
- [Bootstrapping Service Mesh Implementations with Istio](https://www.packtpub.com/product/bootstrapping-service-mesh-implementations-with-istio/9781803246819) (I dont recommend this book, not organize well)

Commit message:

update Securing Workloads resources, add scenario and more resource, updarte lab for cloud provider kind

README.md, after:

# Istio-Certified-Associate

## Prepare a Lab
- [Istio Lab](labs/README.md)
- [killercoda.com: Scenario for the ICA](https://killercoda.com/ica)

## Understanding Service Mesh and Istio
- [istio.io: Isitio Architecture](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/)
- [istio.io: Concepts Documents](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/)

## Exam Objectives

These are the exam objectives you review and understand in order to pass the test.

* [github.com: CNCF Exam Curriculum repository ](https://github.com/cncf/curriculum)
* [linuxfoundation.org: ICA Home Page](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/istio-certified-associate-ica/)
* [Resources allowed during the examp](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/tc-docs/certification/certification-resources-allowed#istio-certified-associate-ica)

<details><summary>Istio Installation, Upgrade & Configuration 7%</summary>
<p>

- [Using the Istio CLI to install a basic cluster](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/install/istioctl/)
  - [youtube.com: Mesh Week (Session 1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_8Gg_jsAbU)
  - [istio.io: Installation Configuration Profiles](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/config-profiles/)
  - [istio.io: Introducing istiod: simplifying the control plane](https://istio.io/v1.16/blog/2020/istiod/)
- [Customizing the Istio installation with the IstioOperator API](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/)
- [Using overlays to manage Istio component settings](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/customize-installation/#identify-an-istio-component)

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Traffic Management 40%</summary>
<p>

- [Controlling network traffic flows within a service mesh](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/request-routing/)
  - [youtube.com: Mesh Week (Session 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q-l1z3ejc8Q)
  - [solo.io: Istio Networking in Depth](https://www.solo.io/blog/istios-networking-in-depth/)
  - [istio.io: Traffic Shifting](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/traffic-shifting/)
- [Configuring sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/)
- [Using the Gateway resource to configure ingress and egress traffic](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/gateway/)
  - [istio.io: Egress Gateway](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway/)
  - [istio.io: Virtualservice](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/)
- [Understanding how to use ServiceEntry resources for adding entries to internal service registry](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/service-entry/)
  - [solo.io: Istio multi-cluster traffic](https://www.solo.io/blog/istio-multi-cluster-traffic-debugging/)
- [Define traffic policies using DestinationRule](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/destination-rule/)
- [Configure traffic mirroring capabilities](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/mirroring/)
  - [envoyproxy.io: HTTP route components](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#config-route-v3-routeaction-requestmirrorpolicy)

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Resilience and Fault Injection 20%</summary>
<p>

- [Configuring circuit breakers (with or without outlier detection)](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/circuit-breaking/)
- [Using resilience features](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#network-resilience-and-testing)
- [Creating fault injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/fault-injection/)
  - [istio.io: Fault injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#fault-injection)
  - [istio.io: Commands](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/commands/pilot-agent/)

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Securing Workloads 20%</summary>
<p>

- [Understand Istio security features](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/security/)
  - [youtube.com: Mesh Week (Session 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uO-X1U1l23I)
- [Set up Istio authorization for HTTP/TCP traffic in the mesh](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/)
  - [istio.io: HTTP Traffic (task for authorization policy)](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-http/)
- [Configure mutual TLS at mesh, namespace, and workload levels](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/tls-configuration/)
  - [istio.io: Mutual TLS Migration (task)](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/security/authentication/mtls-migration/)

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Advanced Scenarios 13%</summary>
<p>

- [Understand how to onboard non-Kubernetes workloads to the mesh](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/install/virtual-machine/)
  - [istio.io: Virtual Machine Artichitecture](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/vm-architecture/)
  - [istio.io: Bookinfo with a Virtual Machine (example)](https://istio.io/latest/docs/examples/virtual-machines/)
- [Troubleshoot configuration issues](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/common-problems/)

</p>
</details>

## Other resources
- [academy.solo.io: ServiceMesh and CNI  free courses](https://academy.solo.io/learn)
- [academy.tetrate.io: ServiceMesh free cources](https://academy.tetrate.io/collections)
- [github.com: Mesh Week Videos](https://github.com/solo-io/mesh-week)
- [github.com: Blog posts about ICA](https://github.com/yuyatinnefeld/istio?tab=readme-ov-file)
- [docs.google.com: Mock Istio Examp - Mesh Week](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfD4BLLQfdUwnIyiTBSGC_OzmSbiyrIlNp5Am61fTOhRbfiLw/viewform)

## Books
- [Istio in Action](https://www.manning.com/books/istio-in-action)
- [Istio Up and Running](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/istio-up-and/9781492043775/)
- [Bootstrapping Service Mesh Implementations with Istio](https://www.packtpub.com/product/bootstrapping-service-mesh-implementations-with-istio/9781803246819) (I dont recommend this book, not organize well)
